Now besides location and history, there also is the navigator object,
also quite interesting. This allows you to interact with the browser and the operating system of your
user so to say, of course only in a limited way,
not unlimited access.
If we expand this, we can find some information about the browser the user used for example
and here, you might see something strange.
This here says something about Mozilla
even though I am using Chrome here,
even more interesting is a specific property which is often used to check which browser the user is using,
the user agent property.
If we access this property, navigator.userAgent, you might expect information about the browser
the user uses,
though if I use it we see information about Mozilla there, AppleWebKit and then yes, also something about
Chrome but also about safari.
Now what's up with this?
This actually looks the way it does look for historic reasons,
browser vendors in the past used to fake this to make sure that their browsers could have access to
all features website might be using in their scripts because in the past, browser support was pretty
different for different web features and hence, some programmers working on websites used user agent
to find out if the user is using let's say Internet Explorer and therefore they wouldn't run a certain
script
if that browser was used. Now as browsers evolved and maybe Internet Explorer 7 included a feature which
version 6 didn't include, that script that prevented Internet Explorer from getting access to certain
features of the website would still block access even though support might now have been added to
the browser.
Therefore browser vendors started to put basically all browser names into this user agent string because
this is set by the browser, so the people building the browsers of course can influence what shows up
in there and hence, browsers basically faked to be another browser so that they could get full access to whatever
the script wanted to do, so that the users of that browser had no limited or restricted user experience.
Hence this is not really that useful.
Now attached you find a link, how you can still parse this, a certain way of reading this that should still
give you mostly reliable information about which browser your user is using but if you really need to
know which browser your user is using, you should not rely on this string in the end but instead check
if a couple of features are available because by checking for feature availability, you can narrow down
which browsers users are using in a better way and you should also check out the browser support module
in this course where I also dive into techniques that allow you to write scripts which work in a broad
variety of browsers or that fall back to some behavior if a certain feature is not supported.
So I just wanted to show this because I find it kind of amusing to understand how this evolved over
time,
as I said with the attached link you can parse it but do it with care. Now navigator also exposes many other
features,
for example it also exposes access to the clipboard API which allows you to add something to the clipboard
or paste something into some input field for example.
It gives you access to geolocation which allows you to locate your user with get current position which
allows you to get the user position, you would do that by then passing in a function which executes once
the position was fetched and in there, you can console log the data which you will get automatically
as an argument,
so this function will be called for you by the browser once the location was fetched and then here if
you enter this, you have to allow that the browser fetches your location and eventually, you'll get that
position object with your coords object in there where you can find out which coordinates the user has
and there's more in navigator.
Now it's impossible to cover all features in a course, so as always, I strongly recommend also using MDN
and just playing around with these features to learn more about what you can do there,
we'll also see some of these features being used throughout the course, so that will also be a nice way
of learning about what you can do there.
And with that we had a look at location and history which allow you to move your user around and find
out where the user is on and so on and navigator which allows you to interact with the machine, with the
browser itself
so to say, for example to get the position or to get some vague information about which browser the user
is using.